#summary Developer Zone
#labels Featured,Tutorials

*Related Links:* [GetStarted Get Started],[GetStartedFromSource Get Started From Source]

=== Introduction ===

This zone contains advanced tutorials related to OpenMobster Cloud Platform. For simpler tutorials you can checkout the [BeginnerZone Beginner Zone].

=== Simple Android Sync App ===

[AndroidSyncApp Android Sync App] covers channel bootstrapping, and pushing new beans to the device.


=== Mobilize a Hibernate Backend ===

[MobilizeHibernate Android/Hibernate CRUD App] covers an Android App that operates in offline mode via synchronization with a Hibernate based backend. It dissects the CRUD (Create,Read,Update,Delete) usecases end-to-end. It also includes receiving Push notifications on the device, when data changes are detected in the database.

=== Understanding the BaseCloudActivity Activity component ===

[http://openmobster.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/android/native-framework/src/main/java/org/openmobster/core/mobileCloud/android_native/framework/BaseCloudActivity.java BaseCloudActivity] component is an Android Activity component that bundles the OpenMobster Cloud Runtime for use within an Android App. Learn how to use this component [BaseCloudActivity here].

=== HTML5 Sync App ===

This tutorial covers a [HTML5SyncApp HTML5 Sync App] written using html and javascript. The App synchronizes its data with the OpenMobster Cloud Server.

=== Architecting a Push Email App ===

This [PushMail tutorial] will cover the architectural aspects of developing a typical Push Email App. 


*Related Links:* [GetStarted Get Started],[GetStartedFromSource Get Started From Source]