#summary Development Environment Setup

[BeginnerZone Beginner Area]
----

===System Requirements===

  * Java SE JDK v6.0

  * Apache Maven 2.2.1

  * Android SDK

  * OS can be Mac OSX, Windows, or Linux. (Tested on Mac OSX, and Linux)

  * IDE: Eclipse (Can be any IDE, but Eclipse is what all the development has been done on)

  * IDE: XCode for iPhone Apps

----

===Setting up Local Maven Repository===

In order to build your apps with OpenMobster SDK, you must make sure the Local Maven repository is loaded with OpenMobster artifacts. This provides the build time as well as runtime environment for your apps. It allows you to run the Cloud Server in a POJO environment right from your maven project. You can get the source code by downloading it or getting it from the svn repository

  * [http://code.google.com/p/openmobster/downloads/list Download]

or

  * svn checkout http://openmobster.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ openmobster-read-only

When downloading, the entire src is included under the *src* folder

----

===Building the source code===

Once you have the source code, you can install it into the local maven repository using the following command:

  * mvn -DskipTests -Pbuild-all install

In order for this to succeed, make sure you have the *ANDROID_HOME* environment variable set to point to the directory where the Android SDK is installed

----

=== Sample Apps ===

In order to get started developing, the src comes packaged with lots of Sample Apps. They are located under:

  * Sample Apps: *src/dev-tools/sampleApps*

These are all multi-module maven apps with the following directory structure

  * *app-android*: The Android App
  
  * *cloud*: Consists of the Cloud artifacts like your Mobile Channels, RPC components, etc

  * *moblet*: This is an aggregation artifact which prepares a consolidated jar file for deployment into a JBoss instance

While developing, you only need to worry about _app_android_ and _cloud_ modules.

==== Installing Android App into the Simulator ====

Under, *app-android*: mvn -Phot-deploy install

==== Running the Cloud Server ====

Under, *cloud* : mvn -PrunCloud integration-test

----

=== XCode ===

==== Static Linking ====

With XCode, you must create a static link to the *mobilecloudlib* library

===== Step 1 =====
Build *mobilecloudlib* project. It is included under the *iPhone* folder.

===== Step 2 =====
In your project, for the _Frameworks_ group, "Add -> Existing Files".
Add the static library *libmobilecloudlib.a* located under *mobilecloudlib/build/Debug-iphonesimulator*

===== Step 3 =====
In your project, under the _Framework_ group, "Add -> Existing Frameworks". Add the *CoreData.Framework" and "CFData.Framework" packages

===== Step 4 =====
In your project, under the _Resources_ group, *Drag* the resources located under the *app-bundle* group from the *mobilecloudlib* project

===== Step 5 =====
In your project, under _Get Info_ -> _Build_ tab, look for the *User Header Search Paths* value located in the *Search Paths* section. There you must add the path to your *mobilecloudlib* project and make it recursive.

This step is needed so that the Headers for the static library are available during the Build.

I agree that the XCode setup is quite complicated. To make things simple, please look the setup of the included *Cloud Manager App*.

For more questions or comments, please feel free to ask on our [http://groups.google.com/group/openmobster-users User Forum]

----
[BeginnerZone Beginner Area]
 