#summary Developing Location Aware Apps
#labels Featured

==== Introduction ====

This tutorial covers developing *Location Aware Apps* using the new *Location Module* of the OpenMobster platform. *Location Awareness* means writing your business logic by taking Location information into account.

In OpenMobster, the business components are encapsulated with this Location information. The components then have easy access to the Location data and can easily integrate it with the business data.

==== Sample App ====

OpenMobster ships with a Location Aware Sample App. The App maps nearby restaurants and presents coupons upon clicking them on the map. Here are the instructions to use this sample app: [LocationSampleApp Sample App]


==== LocationServiceBean ====

On the Cloud-side, *LocationServiceBean* components are encapsulated by Location Data carried inside an object called the *LocationContext*. Invocation of these components involves two paramaters. One is the *LocationContext* and the other is a *Request* object which carries the business data associated with the invocation. The following is a *RestaurantBean* which provides coupon data associated with restaurants that are close to a certain user provided location.

{{{
import java.util.HashMap;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.Random;

import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.LocationContext;
import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.LocationServiceBean;
import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.BeanURI;
import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.Request;
import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.Response;
import org.openmobster.cloud.api.location.Place;

/**
 *
 * @author openmobster@gmail.com
 */
@BeanURI(uri="restaurants")
public class RestaurantBean implements LocationServiceBean
}}}

*BeanURI* registers this component with the kernel.

{{{
@Override
	public Response invoke(LocationContext locationContext, Request request)
	{
		Response response = new Response();
		
		//Get coupons associated with each place
		List<Place> nearbyPlaces = locationContext.getNearbyPlaces();
		if(nearbyPlaces != null && !nearbyPlaces.isEmpty())
		{
			Map<String,String> coupons = new HashMap<String,String>();
			for(Place place:nearbyPlaces)
			{
				String placeId = place.getId();
				
				//In a real implementation, you can lookup the coupon in the database based on the Place object
				int couponIndex = (this.random.nextInt())%7;
				couponIndex = Math.abs(couponIndex);
				String coupon = coupondb[couponIndex];
				
				coupons.put(placeId, coupon);
			}
			response.setMapAttribute("coupons", coupons);
		}
		
		return response;
	}
}}}

It takes a list of nearby restaurants from the *LocationContext* and then associates coupons from a database with each. This business data married with location data is then sent back as a *Response* object.

==== The App Side Logic ====

In this app, the location data is provided by the user in terms of street, city, and zip code. Once this data is available, an invocation is made from the device to the cloud to get nearby restaurants to this location.

{{{
String street = (String)commandContext.getAttribute("street");
			String city = (String)commandContext.getAttribute("city");
			String zip = (String)commandContext.getAttribute("zip");
			
			//Construct a request for the RestaurantBean
			Request request = new Request("restaurants");
			LocationContext locationContext = new LocationContext();
			locationContext.setRequest(request);
			
			//Add the Address around which the restaurants must be looked up
			Address address = new Address();
			address.setStreet(street);
			address.setCity(city);
			address.setZipCode(zip);
			locationContext.setAddress(address);
			
			//Narrow search to restaurants
			List<String> placeTypes = new ArrayList<String>();
			placeTypes.add("food");
			locationContext.setPlaceTypes(placeTypes);
			
			//Set the search radius
			locationContext.setRadius(1000); //1000 meters
			
			//Make the invocation to the Cloud to make a Location Aware search
			LocationContext responseContext = LocationService.invoke(request, locationContext);
			
			commandContext.setAttribute("locationContext", responseContext);
}}}

{{{
//Construct a request for the RestaurantBean
                        Request request = new Request("restaurants");
                        LocationContext locationContext = new LocationContext();
                        locationContext.setRequest(request);

}}}

A *Request* object is created and its given the name of the component to invoke which is *restaurants* in this case. A *LocationContext* is also initialized which will carry the location data associated with the invocation

{{{
//Add the Address around which the restaurants must be looked up
        Address address = new Address();
        address.setStreet(street);
        address.setCity(city);
        address.setZipCode(zip);
        locationContext.setAddress(address);

}}} 

Create an *Address* object and assign it to the *LocationContext*. 

{{{
//Narrow search to restaurants
                        List<String> placeTypes = new ArrayList<String>();
                        placeTypes.add("food");
                        locationContext.setPlaceTypes(placeTypes);

//Set the search radius
                        locationContext.setRadius(1000); //1000 meters


}}}

Narrow the search to only restaurants over a 1000 meter search radius.

{{{
//Make the invocation to the Cloud to make a Location Aware search
                        LocationContext responseContext = LocationService.invoke(request, locationContext);
}}}

Invoke the *RestaurantBean* providing the location data in the *LocationContext* and business data inside the *Request* object.

==== Processing the Response ====
{{{
Map<String,String> coupons = response.getMapAttribute("coupons");
			List<Place> restaurants = locationContext.getNearbyPlaces();
			
			//Add restaurant markers and corresponding coupon information
			MyItemizedOverlay restaurantMarkers = new MyItemizedOverlay(marker,map);
			for(Place restaurant:restaurants)
			{
				double latitude = Double.parseDouble(restaurant.getLatitude());
				double longitude = Double.parseDouble(restaurant.getLongitude());
				GeoPoint point = new GeoPoint((int)(latitude * 1E6), (int)(longitude * 1E6));
				OverlayItem item = new OverlayItem(point,restaurant.getName(),coupons.get(restaurant.getId()));
				restaurantMarkers.addOverlay(item);
			}
}}}

The coupons being business data are read from the *Response* object as a *Map<String,String>*, while the nearby restaurants being location data are read from the *LocationContext*.