#summary Project Roadmap.

*Related Links:* [GetStarted Get Started]

----

Timelines are difficult to anticipate, but here is a rolling list of features that we would like to deliver. This should give some vision about the direction of the project. As the project progresses, this roadmap is bound to be adjusted.

=== Release 2.0 ===

==== Device Side ====
    * Blackberry OS version 4.3.0 and above

    * Google Android (baseline version not decided yet). Have been testdriving the 2.0 version of the platform
	
    * Connection Module
      * Socket Management
      * Server Side Push Notifications
		
    * Bus Module
      * Inter-App communication
		
    * Sync Module
      * Seamless App State/Data Synchronization
      * Support for all sync modes two-way, oneway-server, oneway-device, bootsync
		
    * MobileObject Module
      * Data Serialization/Deserialization
      * Object Storage
      * Object Query Facilities
      * Support a generic "MobileBean" that mirrors its corresponding POJO/Domain object on the Cloud
		
    * Storage Module
      * Abstracts on-device storage services
		
      * Moblet Data Framework
	
      * Moblet MVC Framework
	
      * CloudManager App

==== Cloud Side ====
  * Synchronization Engine
	
  * Comet-Style Push Engine
	
  * Security Services
    * Device Authorization
    * User Account Provisioning
    * Device Provisioning		
		
  * App Store Engine		
	
  * A Command Line Management Console
	
  * Channel Development Framework
	
  * Service Development Framework

----

=== Release 2.2 - (Actively Under Development) ===

==== Device Side ====
  * iPhone Support

==== Cloud Side ====
	
  * A GWT-based Management Console

  * A Javascript API/Bridge for the Sync and the RPC (Remote Procedure Call) services. This will help integrate with Apps written in html,css, and Javascript

  * Push based programming via a cross platform API. Same API for pushing to both Android and iPhone devices.

  * Integration with Apple Push Notification Service

  * Sync Channel Encryption

  * Integration with Appcelerator to develop cross platform Cloud Apps using html, css, and javascript

  * Location Based Programming Framework

  * Remote Wipe and Remote Lock from the Management Console

  * A Device to Device Push Framework. Allows for two way communication between two mobile devices from your App.

  * Integration with PhoneGap to build Hybrid Cloud Apps
	
----

=== Release 2.4 ===
  * Windows Phone 7 Support
  * Support for the evolving HTML5 standard
  * Expand PhoneGap Support to more modules in addition to the already supported Sync Plugin
  * Upgrade to JBoss 7
  * Developer Framework for Exposing web services using REST/JSON. This will probably replace the use of the RPC module from the end user developer standpoint. The RPC module will still be used internally by the platform since it most likely will give better performance
  * Clustering
  * BlackBerry Support
  * Create an Android runtime for Consumer Apps

----

*Related Links:* [GetStarted Get Started]