#summary OpenMobster/Titanium App

*Related Links:* [TitaniumArea Titanium Area], [GetStarted Get Started], [BeginnerZone Beginner]

----

=== System Requirements ===

  * Java 6
  * [http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html Android SDK]
  * XCode
  * [http://www.appcelerator.com/products/download/ Titanium Studio]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/openmobster/downloads/list OpenMobster-2.2-M3] 

----

=== Running the Cloud Server ===
{{{
cd Titanium/crud/cloud

mvn -PrunCloud integration-test
}}}

This should make the OpenMobster Cloud Server up and running for the Titanium App.

----

=== Installing the Activation App ===

For security reasons, before apps can use the OpenMobster Cloud, the device must be first registered with the cloud. This is done using an Activation App that comes with the OpenMobster distribution.

==== Android Activation App ====

You can install the Android Activation App (called the CloudManager) in one of two ways. 

===== Direct Install =====

You can locate this App in the distrution under *Android/core-runtime/CloudManager.apk*

Installation Command:
{{{
adb install -r install CloudManager.apk
}}}

===== Over-the-Air Install =====

You can download the App from the Android browser using the following address:
{{{
http://<cloudserverip>/o/android/cloudmanager
}}}
Once downloaded, Android takes care of installing it on the device

----

==== iPhone Activation App ====

You can install the iPhone Activation App in two ways. By compiling it yourself or from the App Store (Still waiting approval as of this writing).

===== Compile the Activation App =====

The Activation App is located in the _iPhone_ folder of the distribution.
Before you can compile the Activation App you must make sure the *mobilecloudlib* static library is available. The *mobilecloudlib* is also present in the iPhone folder. Here are the steps for compiling ActivationApp

  * First Open *mobilecloudlib* in XCode

  * Do a *Clean All Targets*

  * Do a *Build*. In the first go it may come up with some errors. Just run the *Build* again and it will compile cleanly.

  * Open the *ActivationApp* in XCode

  * Do a *Clean All Targets*

  * Do a *Build and Run*. This will launch the ActivationApp in the Simulator. You can now activate this with the cloud and you are ready to go.

----

=== Running the Titanium Sample App ===

The Titanium Sample App runs on both Android and iPhone using the same javascript codebase. This app is located under *Titanium/crud/titanium_portable_app*. You must import this project into the Titanium Studio.

This App uses the OpenMobster Cloud Module to integrate with OpenMobster Cloud services. There is a separate installation process for iPhone and Android.

==== Android Installation ====

  * Copy *Titanium/org.openmobster.cloud-android-0.1.zip* into the *Titanium/crud/titanium_portable_app* folder

==== iPhone Installation ====

  * Copy *Titanium/org.openmobster.cloud-iphone-0.1.zip* into the */Library/Application\ Support/Titanium*

  * Then unzip it in that directory
----

Now that the module is installed, you can Run the App inside the Android Simulator or the iPhone Simulator from Titanium Studio.

The App has to be run from the Titanium Studio as it compiles the javascript into native code and runs it into the selected device simulator.

----

To understand the javascript/Titanium code please take a loot at: [TitaniumSampleApp Titanium Sample App]

----

*Related Links:* [TitaniumArea Titanium Area], [GetStarted Get Started], [BeginnerZone Beginner]