#summary I downloaded the software. What Next?

I have always wondered what goes through a user's mind after downloading a big piece of software. Good software comes with *README* files to navigate through the maze. Even though OpenMobster comes with a bunch of *README* files, I want to go a little further in providing more information.


After you download OpenMobster, there are two ways you can go.

  * Start writing your own App. This is covered in the [GetStarted2_4 Get Started] document.

  * Take the *OpenMobster system* for a ride. This is the topic of this document.


Before you decide to take the software for a spin, make sure your machine is setup properly. You can find those instructions [DevSetup here].

=== Step 1: Prepare the JBoss AS server ===
Download *JBoss 5.1.0 server* from [http://www.jboss.org/jbossas/downloads here]. Extract the zip file

Now install the OpenMobster Cloud Server into the JBoss AS. You can do that by copying cloudServer/hsqldb/openmobster to the JBOSS_HOME/server directory
{{{
cp -r cloudServer/hsqldb/openmobster $JBOSS_HOME/server/openmobster
}}}

=== Step 2: Run the OpenMobster Cloud Server ===
Go to $JBOSS_HOME/bin directory. Inside there:
{{{
./run.sh -c openmobster -b 192.168.1.103
}}}

This starts the server and binds it whatever your local IP is.

On MacOSX, you need Admin rights to run the web server on port 80. Hence, on the Mac the same command is:
{{{
sudo ./run.sh -c openmobster -b 192.168.1.103
}}}

These instructions can also be found in the *README* file under the *cloudServer* folder.

=== Step 3: Run the Android Emulator ===

Start the Emulator
{{{
emulator -avd openmobster
}}}

Start the Debugger
{{{
ddms
}}}

=== Step 4: Install the Cloud Manager App ===

Now that your device is ready and your server is ready, its time to install the Cloud Manager App over the air. You can do this by starting the browser on the device, and typing the following url:
{{{
http://192.168.1.103/o/android/cloudmanager
}}}

This will download the app and install it.

Note: In the Emulator you must have an SD Card for this OTA download to work

=== Step 5: Activate the CloudManager App ===

You can launch the Cloud Manager App. At first launch it will ask to Activate with the Cloud Server. It will collect 4 values:

*Server:* the IP or FQDN address where the Cloud Server is running. For localhost you should use the address, *10.0.2.2*

*Port:* Port where the Cloud Server is running. The default value is *1502*.

*Email:* A valid email address.

*Password:* Password to be associated with this user/device.

=== Step 6: Install Sample Apps ===

From the Cloud Manager App, select *Corporate App Store*. This will give you a list of some sample apps that are installed on the server. You can now download, install and play around with some of them.

That's it. This concludes the process of take the OpenMobster system for a test drive. It definitely give you an idea of how the entities are setup architecturally.

=== Helpful Hints ===
Here are the values to use when connecting to the CloudServer on your localhost

JBoss Commmand to start the server: *./run.sh -c openmobster -b 127.0.0.1*

URL to use to download the CloudManager App: http://10.0.2.2/o/android/cloudmanager

Server IP to use when activating the device : *10.0.2.2*