#summary I downloaded the software. What Next?

I have always wondered what goes through a user's mind after downloading a big piece of software. Good software comes with *README* files to navigate through the maze. Even though OpenMobster comes with a bunch of *README* files, I want to go a little further in providing more information.


After you download OpenMobster, there are two ways you can go.

  * Start writing your own App. This is covered in the [GetStarted Get Started] document.

  * Take the *OpenMobster system* for a ride. This is the topic of this document.


Before you decide to take the software for a spin, make sure your machine is setup properly. You can find those instructions [DevSetup here].

=== Step 1: Prepare the JBoss AS server ===
Download JBoss 5.1.0 server from [http://www.jboss.org/jbossas/downloads here]. Extract the zip file

Now install the OpenMobster Cloud Server into the JBoss AS. You can do that by copying cloudServer/hsqldb/openmobster to the JBOSS_HOME/server directory
{{{
cp -r cloudServer/hsqldb/openmobster $JBOSS_HOME/server/openmobster
}}}

=== Step 2: Run the OpenMobster Cloud Server ===
Go to $JBOSS_HOME/bin directory. Inside there:
{{{
./run.sh -c openmobster -b 192.168.1.103
}}}

This starts the server and binds it whatever your local IP is.

On MacOSX, you need Admin rights to run the web server on port 80. Hence, on the Mac the same command is:
{{{
sudo ./run.sh -c openmobster -b 192.168.1.103
}}}

These instructions can also be found in the *README* file under the *cloudServer* folder.

=== Step 3: Run the Android Emulator ===

Start the Emulator
{{{
emulator -avd openmobster
}}}

Start the Debugger
{{{
ddms
}}}

=== Step 4: Install the Cloud Manager App ===

Now that your device is ready and your server is ready, its time to install the Cloud Manager App over the air. You can do this by starting the browser on the device, and typing the following url:
{{{
http://192.168.1.103/o/android/cloudmanager
}}}

This will download the app and install it.

Note: In the Emulator you must have an SD Card for this OTA download to work

=== Step 5: Activate the device ===

You can launch the Cloud Manager App. There you can choose "Activate" and follow the activation wizard.

=== Step 6: Install Sample Apps ===


}}}